chore(curriculum):add box model module transcripts (#58706)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lecture-working-with-css-transforms-overflow-and-filters/672bccebe1fc82d911c3f078.md

# --description--

Watch the video or read the transcript and answer the questions below.

# --transcript--

> What is the CSS filter property, and what are common examples?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is the CSS `filter` property, and what are common examples?
```

> The CSS filter property is a powerful tool that allows you to apply  graphical effects to elements on a web page. It's particularly useful for adjusting the visual presentation of images, backgrounds and even text without modifying the original asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSS `filter` property is a powerful tool that allows you to apply  graphical effects to elements on a web page. It's particularly useful for adjusting the visual presentation of images, backgrounds and even text without modifying the original asset.
```

The `filter` property can be used to create various effects, such as blurring, color shifting, and contrast adjustments. Let's discuss how the filter property works and explore some common examples. The basic syntax for a `filter` property is straightforward:

```css
selector {
  filter: function(amount);
}
```

> Here `function` represents the specific filter effect you want to apply, and amount is typically a value that determines the intensity of the effect. Now let's look at some common filter functions and their uses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here `function` represents the specific filter effect you want to apply, and `amount` is typically a value that determines the intensity of the effect. Now let's look at some common filter functions and their uses.
```

```css
img {
  filter: blur(5px);
}
```

> The `blur` function applies a gaussian blur to the element, the amount is specified in pixels and represents the radius of the blur. This CSS rule will apply a 5 pixel blur to all images on the page. Here's what an image might look like with this filter applied (a cat image with blur effect). The `blur` effect can be useful for creating depth in your design or for obscuring parts of an image. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `blur` function applies a gaussian blur to the element, the amount is specified in pixels and represents the radius of the blur. This CSS rule will apply a 5 pixel blur to all images on the page. The `blur` effect can be useful for creating depth in your design or for obscuring parts of an image. 
```

> The `brightness` function adjusts the brightness of the element. A value of 0% will make the element completely black, while values over 100% will increase the brightness. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `brightness` function adjusts the brightness of the element. A value of `0%` will make the element completely black, while values over `100%` will increase the brightness. 
```

```css
.bright-image {
  filter: brightness(150%);
}
```

> This CSS rule increases the brightness of elements with the class `bright-image` by 50%. This is what it looks like (a cat image with increased brightness). Brightness adjustments can be used to make images popup or create a washed-out effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This CSS rule increases the brightness of elements with the class `bright-image` by `50%`. Brightness adjustments can be used to make images pop or create a washed-out effect.
```

> The `grayscale` function converts the element to grayscale. The amount is defined as a percentage, where 100% is completely grayscale and 0% leaves the image unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `grayscale` function converts the element to grayscale. The amount is defined as a percentage, where `100%` is completely grayscale and `0%` leaves the image unchanged.
```

```css
.gray-image {
  filter: grayscale(100%);
}
```

> This rule will convert elements with the class `gray-image` to complete grayscale and here's what it looks like (a cat image in grayscale). Grayscale can be used to create a vintage look or deemphasize certain elements on a page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule will convert elements with the class `gray-image` to complete grayscale. `grayscale` can be used to create a vintage look or de-emphasize certain elements on a page.
```

> The `sepia` function applies a sepia tone to the element. Like grayscale, it uses a percentage value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `sepia` function applies a sepia tone to the element. Like grayscale, it uses a percentage value:
```

```css
.old-photo {
  filter: sepia(80%);
}
```

> This rule applies an 80% sepia effect to elements with the class `old-photo`, and here's what it would like (a cat image with sepia effect). The sepia effect is great for creating a vintage or old timey look.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule applies an `80%` sepia effect to elements with the class `old-photo`. The sepia effect is great for creating a vintage or old-timey look.
```

The `hue-rotate` function applies the hue rotation to the element. The value is defined in degrees, and represents a rotation around the color circle. 

```css
.color-shift {
  filter: hue-rotate(90deg);
}
```

> This rule rotates the hue of elements with the class `color-shift` by 90 degrees, and here's what it would look like (a cat image with hue rotation). Hue rotation can be used to create psychedelic effects or to adjust the overall color scheme of an image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule rotates the hue of elements with the class `color-shift` by `90` degrees. Hue rotation can be used to create psychedelic effects or to adjust the overall color scheme of an image.
```

> One of the most powerful aspects of the `filter` property is the ability to combine multiple effects. You can apply several filters to the same element by separating them with spaces. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most powerful aspects of the `filter` property is the ability to combine multiple effects. You can apply several filters to the same element by separating them with spaces:
```

```css
.multi-filter {
  filter: contrast(150%) 
          brightness(110%) 
          sepia(30%);
}
```

> This rule applies increased contrast, slightly increased brightness, and a subtle sepia effect to elements with the class `multi-filter`, and here's an example of how combining filters can transform an image (a cat image with multiple effects). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule applies increased contrast, slightly increased brightness, and a subtle sepia effect to elements with the class `multi-filter`. 
```
